README.md, before:

# Info201-Final_Project (BE)
> Henry Joseph Bates, Chunmo Chen, Brian Hsu, Ruiqi Yan

**Project Description**
1. What is the dataset you'll be working with?  Please include background on who collected the data, where you accessed it, and any additional information we should know about how this data came to be.

    - The nutrition data base is collected by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), which we accessed from [this site](https://ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb/doc/index). The API allows us to make 4 different types of request:
        - Food Report: obtain nutrient reports on individual foods
        - List: retrieve list of foods, nutrients, or food groups
        - Nutrient Report: obtain reports for foods by one or more nutrients
        - Search: use free text to locate foods in the database
    - The Recipe-Food-Nutrition API is found [here](https://rapidapi.com/spoonacular/api/recipe-food-nutrition). The data is collected by Spoonacular. This data comes to build semantic relationships between food items like ingredients, recipes and store-bought products. Useful requests:
        - Search Recipe
        - Get similar recipes

2. Who is your target audience?  Depending on the domain of your data, there may be a variety of audiences interested in using the dataset.  You should hone in on one of these audiences.

    The target audience of the project is students who have a limited budget and time but care about their diets.

3. What does your audience want to learn from your data?  Please list out at least 3 specific questions that your project will answer for your audience.

    - What are the appropriate recipes that provide certain amount of nutrition combination? What's the proportion of each kind of nutrition for each recipe being selected?
    - How much calories absorbed in terms of the food eaten? The amount of consumed calories from the daily calories limited set by user themselves.
    - Given a specific ingredient(s), what recipes can one make? (For people who want to change things up but don't know what to make) and how much calories is contained in this recipe? 

**Technical Description**

1. How will you be reading in your data (i.e., are you using an API, or is it a static .csv/.json file)?

    We are using APIs. We are deciding to use a Recipe API and also a Nutrition Fact API.

2. What types of data-wrangling (reshaping, reformatting, etc.) will you need to do to your data?

    - We are going to do:

       - Reformatting: Transform list of ingredients and list of nutrition facts into integrated table; Generate a table of nutrition fact based on the recipe; Transform the ingredients ID provided by the data into real ingredients name;
       - Reshaping: Match ingredients with the nutrition table; Enable backward search by nutrition needed.
       - Data visualization: transform ingredient list and nutrition table to a more interactive diagram.
       - Enriching: We are going to enrich the nutrition list in the recipe api with a more detailed nutrition fact in all the ingredients that is used in the recipe. 

3. What (major/new) libraries will be using in this project?
      - Shiny
      - ggplot2
      - Plotly
      - [ggiraph](http://davidgohel.github.io/ggiraph/)
      - [DT](https://rstudio.github.io/DT/)
      - [Highcharter](http://jkunst.com/highcharter/hchart.html)
      - Jsonlite
      - Httr

4. What major challenges do you anticipate?

     - How to design the input box so that the user can import their daily meal instead of one dish.
     - Reshaping/ Combining the datasets from two different APIs can be a bit overwhelming, and may require a clear understanding of what each dataset provides.

Commit message:

minor revision for target audience and form

README.md, after:

# Info201-Final_Project (BE)
> Henry Joseph Bates, Chunmo Chen, Brian Hsu, Ruiqi Yan

**Project Description**
1. What is the dataset you'll be working with?  Please include background on who collected the data, where you accessed it, and any additional information we should know about how this data came to be.

    - The nutrition data base is collected by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), which we accessed from [this site](https://ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb/doc/index). The API allows us to make 4 different types of request:
        - Food Report: obtain nutrient reports on individual foods
        - List: retrieve list of foods, nutrients, or food groups
        - Nutrient Report: obtain reports for foods by one or more nutrients
        - Search: use free text to locate foods in the database
    - The Recipe-Food-Nutrition API is found [here](https://rapidapi.com/spoonacular/api/recipe-food-nutrition). The data is collected by Spoonacular. This data comes to build semantic relationships between food items like ingredients, recipes and store-bought products. Useful requests:
        - Search Recipe
        - Get similar recipes

2. Who is your target audience?  Depending on the domain of your data, there may be a variety of audiences interested in using the dataset.  You should hone in on one of these audiences.

    The target audience of the project is students who have a limited budget and time but care about their diets. Our dataset could allow our target audience to find the recipe that matches his or her nutrition needs or calculate for their nutrition intake for the day.

3. What does your audience want to learn from your data?  Please list out at least 3 specific questions that your project will answer for your audience.

    - What are the appropriate recipes that provide certain amount of nutrition combination? What's the proportion of each kind of nutrition for each recipe being selected?
    - How much calories absorbed in terms of the food eaten? The amount of consumed calories from the daily calories limited set by user themselves.
    - Given a specific ingredient(s), what recipes can one make? (For people who want to change things up but don't know what to make) and how much calories is contained in this recipe? 

**Technical Description**

1. How will you be reading in your data (i.e., are you using an API, or is it a static .csv/.json file)?

    Our product will be in the Shiny form. We are using a API for the recipes on Spoonacular and also a nutrition fact API from the USDA.

2. What types of data-wrangling (reshaping, reformatting, etc.) will you need to do to your data?

    - We are going to do:

       - Reformatting: Transform list of ingredients and list of nutrition facts into integrated table; Generate a table of nutrition fact based on the recipe; Transform the ingredients ID provided by the data into real ingredients name;
       - Reshaping: Match ingredients with the nutrition table; Enable backward search by nutrition needed.
       - Data visualization: transform ingredient list and nutrition table to a more interactive diagram.
       - Enriching: We are going to enrich the ingredients list that is used in the recipe with more detailed nutrition information and also be able to match their flavors or diets.

3. What (major/new) libraries will be using in this project?
      - Shiny
      - ggplot2
      - Plotly
      - [ggiraph](http://davidgohel.github.io/ggiraph/)
      - [DT](https://rstudio.github.io/DT/)
      - [Highcharter](http://jkunst.com/highcharter/hchart.html)
      - Jsonlite
      - Httr

4. What major challenges do you anticipate?

     - How to design the input box so that the user can import their daily meal instead of one dish.
     - Reshaping/ Combining the datasets from two different APIs can be a bit overwhelming, and may require a clear understanding of what each dataset provides.
